# RadiomicsOntologyIBSI
## Radiomics Ontology and IBSI radiomics standard reporting
This is the repository for the radiomics ontology (RO) and the project with IBSI (Image Biomarker Standardization Iniative) for standardized reporting in radiomics computation. The aim of the project is to provide the radiomics community with a set of tools and guidlines to improve the actual quality of reporting of radiomics studies. Finally, the projects aims at providing FAIR (Findable Accessible Interoperable Reusable) tools to boost the access and reproducibility of radiomics studies.

In particular, we developed a complete workflow that allows standardizing the reporting of radiomics computations.
The workflow is composed by the following steps:
1) Report of radiomics computations by filling a set of template tables. These template tables contain information about radiomic features, their values, units and all other details related to their computation. The tables have been created to guarantee broad coverage of all the steps in the radiomic workflow, as explained in details in the IBSI reference guide (https://arxiv.org/abs/1612.07003). A set of rules is provided to facilitate the filling of the tables. Small example tables are provided too.
2) Radiomics ontology: the radiomics ontology aims to cover the radiomics feature domain with a strong focus on first order, shape, textural radiomics features. The current version of the ontology includes all the possible steps that should be documented when poerforming a radiomic study. The ontology URIs (Unique Resource Identifiers) are the same as in the IBSI reference manual. The ontology is used to transform the tables from the previous point as FAIR (Find Accessible Interoperable Reusable) compliant data, by producing RDF (Resource Description Framework) triples, published  the Semantic Web and making them querable using a dedicated language. The ontology is 
